About Me
=======

The two things I'm probably most known for are bikes and computers.

Computers
---------

I look after computers. I'm involved to varying degrees with four servers as 'personal' projects and help
look after forty odd at work.
Work is all Windows, with the exception of two XServes, recreation is all Debian, with the exception of
one CentOS.

I'm a bit Linuxy. Or Unixy. Most of the time I use Debian or Ubuntu - I like Debian's ethos and Ubuntu's
people. I've an odd fondness for OpenSolaris, too (which is probably entirely down to my peculiar
attraction to Sun1 ), and I keep having BSD phases. Haiku's piqued my interest of late, too, but I don't
have enough spare resources to really run it.

It's been said that I take the first 't' of http rather too literally, I've certainly something of an aversion to the 'ml' bit of HTML, and a complete absence of the middle 'S' in CSS. I don't do design, and in my eyes the presentation of something is always secondary to its function. Though I've still not entirely settled on a font for my shell.


Bikes
-----

Much as I appear to be known as someone who rides mountain bikes, I hardly ever do any more. I rode
bicycles - mostly mountain bikes but my fair share of abominations - until I noticed engines a couple of
years ago, and it's been motorbikes since. I tinker with bikes and engines about as much as I do with
computers, though I'm dimly aware of the the increased risk associated with an engine's equivalent of a
segfault.

