Curriculum Vitae
================

Excellent analytical abilities, and extensive experience in modelling complex systems and processes.
Superb written communication skills, for both technical and non-technical audiences. Experience working
cross-functionally within a customer focused, multi-site, multi-role environment, maintaining the
delivery of IT services and technology projects. Passion for interoperability, clarity and simplicity and
up to date on IT developments.

----

Experience
----------

### Linux
* 8 years primary desktop usage of Debian & Ubuntu. Use of KDE, Gnome, Fluxbox, Enlightenment.
* 3 years administering Debian servers. Some administration of Ubuntu and CentOS servers
* Extensive use of apt/dpkg, make/install
* Studying for LPIC-1

Apache, bind, djbdns, iptables, JRE, KVM/Qemu, Mediawiki, Munin, MySQL, Nagios, NFSv4, Nmap, PHP, PHPWiki, 
PostgreSQL, Postfix, Proftpd, Samba, Virtualbox

Claws Mail, Emacs, Evolution, Mozilla suite, Vim, Eclipse

### Microsoft
* Windows XP - 2.5 years support, 5 years regular desktop use
* Server 2003 - 2.5 years administration
* Server 2000 - 2.5 years administration
* Windows Mobile 5 & 6 - 2 years support

Active Directory, Bulletproof FTP server, CA ArcServe Backup, Checkpoint Endpoint Encryption, DHCP, DNS,
Exchange, IIS, StrawberryPerl, Terminal Services Server, Virtualbox.

Mozilla Suite, Office 97-03, Office 2007, Outlook, VNC

### Apple
* OSX
* OSX Server

Entourage, MS Office, Apple Mail

### Other
* Kace Kbox - 3 months
* Mimecast - 6 months
* SonicWall Firewall and VPN - 2 years
* Netgear and HP managed switches - 2 years
* Lacie NAS and DAS - 18 months
* Ethernet network design and installation; Cat5 termination - 2 years
* BT Meridian PBX troubleshooting and programming - 12 months

### Languages
* PHP and mod_perl programming for standards-compliant XHTML/CSS
* Perl and Bash

----

Work:
-----
### Service Graphics Digital Print Division, St Ives PLC, London - Junior IT Technician (Full Time)
October 2007 - Present

* My primary role is desktop support to the Service Graphics digital print division of St Ives. It is
  primarily Windows XP/Server2003 in an Active Directory domain, with some non-domained macs.

* My first major project was the planning and execution of a seamless move of the Jupiter division to a
  new site at St Ives' head office. This involved configuring a temporary network, building racks
  containing servers and switchgear. I have since planned and  executed the division of two sites into
  functional subnets, and the IT side of the closure of another site.

* Support users of Windows and OSX across eight sites, the vast majority remotely via VNC and Terminal
  Services.

* Specify, order and configure new desktop workstations and servers, troubleshoot problems on current
  ones, and plan and  execute upgrade programmes.

* Use Perl and Bash to automate administrative tasks, and develop cgi-based interfaces for system and
  network monitoring and  management.

* Maintain and support Debian-based intranet server, providing a documentation wiki and packaged and
  custom cgi network  monitoring.

* Configure and operate a network of virtual machines for the testing and evaluation of network
  monitoring software.

* Liaise with production and studio managers and third-party support companies to arrange for maintenance
  of the image  processing servers, printers and studio PCs and peripherals.

* Investigate bugs in Service Graphics' bespoke management information system. Manage enhancements, bug
  fixes and releases with the developer.

###West London Synagogue Religion School (Sunday Mornings)
September 2000 - September 2002 & September 2007 - Present

* Provision of resources and IT functions for West London Synagogue, including the provisioning and
  configuring of IT and audio visual equipment.

* Reorganised and catalogued the contents of the resource room. Development of web interface using Perl
  to allow teachers to order resources.

* Refurbish and repair donated PCs.

* Developed educational web-based software in PHP for use by the children.

* Developing an electronic registration system for the school.


### Cycle Surgery Camden, London - Bicycle Mechanic (Full Time)
September 2006 - October 2007

* A major part of my job was talking to customers about their requirements, and suggesting possible
  solutions, and being a technical advisor to sales staff.

* Assembled, repaired and quoted for repair on high-end bicycles, including post-crash damage inspections
  and insurance quotes. This helped the workshop to become the most profitable in the company.

* Expected to recognise any jobs outside of my capabilities, and seek help as necessary.

* On Saturdays I ran the workshop for the busiest day of the week, being completely responsible for
  deciding which jobs could be taken in, and ensured that those I did accept were completed as promised.


### Cycle Surgery West Hampstead, London - Salesman (Weekends & Holidays)
May 2003 - September 2006

* Primarily responsible for the sale and merchandising of products, this involved identifying customer
  requirements and facilitating them within our stock.

* Responsible for the workshop stock levels and the processing of warranty claims.

* Having gained a recognised level of competency on the EPOS system (Stockturn), became involved in the
* training of new members of staff, and assisted the management in administrative tasks.



----



Education:
----------

*2005 - 2006: Queen Mary, University of London*

 *	Year 1 of BEng Aerospace Engineering.

*2004 - 2005: Queen Mary, University of London*

*	Science and Engineering Foundation Programme: designed to prepare students for the degree course.
*	Modules: Mechanics and Materials, Waves and Fields, Electricity and Atomic Physics, Maths 1,
*	Maths 2, Communication Skills, Introduction to Engineering.

*2002 - 2003: Christ's College, Finchley*

*	A-Levels: Product Design (C), Physics (D), Maths (E), AS-Level: ICT (B)

----

Hobbies and Interests:
----------------------

I am a  keen motorcyclist. I am a member of the London Bikers forum and frequently join them on rides
around the South East, and I plan my own rides and touring holidays. I enjoy the mechanical side of
motorbikes, and having rebuilt my first bike for my brother to learn on, I am now guiding him through its
regular servicing and irregular repair.

I offer support to Ubuntu users through the Ubuntu-user and Debian-user mailing lists and the
linuxquestions.org forums during my spare time, and enjoy the social side of these, the Greater London
Linux User Group and London Perl Mongers.

I enjoy reading, and have whiled away many an afternoon in second hand bookshops. My bookshelves house
books on 20th Century history and the history and absurdities of the English language (and languages in
general), trivia, and of course computing. My excursions into fiction almost entirely consist of humour
and science fiction, with particular fondness for Grant Naylor and Douglas Adams.
