Engine characteristics
======================


Power and torque
----------------

Power (P) and torque (&tau;) are linked by engine speed; the faster the engine is spinning (&omega;), the
more power it produces. Power is the product of rotational torque and rotational velocity:

>	P = &tau; &bull; &omega;
<!--  P = T * w 			-->

Where all are measured in SI units. The SI unit of torque (&tau;) is Newton Metres (Nm), which is the
normal one (unless you're Jeremy Clarkson). Power (P) here is measured in Watts (W), whereas the value
is normally given in Horsepower (HP); 1HP =~ 758 W. Speed here is measured as the angular velocity
(&omega;) in radians per second (<sup>c</sup>s<sup>-1</sup>) though revolutions per minute (RPM) is the
normal unit; 1rpm = 120&pi;<sup>c</sup>s<sup>-1</sup>. This is of little relevance, though - I'm not going
to use much in the way of numbers.

The engine's power comes from the explosions going on in the cylinder. In short, the more fuel burnt per
cycle, and the more efficient the combustion, the more power the engine will produce. Hence bigger
engines being more powerful. This is a pretty basic concept, so for the rest of this we'll assume that
any comparisons involve engines of equal displacement.


Stroke
------

In short, engines are either 'long stroke', 'short stroke' or somewhere in the middle. The particular
definitions of each depend on what the rest of the engines in a field are like (piston aero engines tend
to be _really_ long stroke, while F1 engines are incredibly short), but I'm refraining from numbers for
the moment anyway.

There are two important differences between them - how fast the piston must move and how lonng the
crankshaft webs are (the webs are the bits that join [and hold apart] the main bearing journal and the
connecting rod journal):

    short stroke	long stroke
                          _
         _               | |
      __| |__          __| |__


Longer stroke engines have pistons that move very far up and down the cylinder. For a given engine speed,
the piston must move faster than for a short-stroke engine (since it must move further in the same time)
and so more stress is put on all the parts that do the accelerating.
The crankarm web is also a lot longer, so when it is horizontal (assuming a vertical cylinder), the long
stroke piston will have a greater turning moment on the crankshaft, and so produce more torque.

Short stroke engines, for a given displacement, have wider cylinders, which calls for bigger heads and so
allows for more valves and spark plugs. More valves means better control of gas (fuel/air mixture and
exhaust) movement, more spark plugs means better control of combustion.

Carburettor
-----------

Carburettors take advantage of a wonderfully simple principle that is almost completely absent from
intuition - the Venturi effect.

The Venturi effect is the drop in pressure when a fluid (that is a liquid or a gas) flows through a
constricted section of pipe.

A carburettor effectively consists of a restriction in a pipe (a Venturi tube) with a hole in the side,
leading to some petrol (a jet). It takes advantage of the drop in pressure in the constriction to draw the fuel
into the air. The faster the air flows through the venturi, the further the pressure drops, and so the faster 
the petrol is drawn up. This isn't a linear relationship, though; the pressure increases with the squares of 
the velocities.

The ratio of fuel:air mixture has a great effect on the engine. Combustion, being a chemical reaction, is
moderately scientific. All chemical reactions require some ratio of inputs, and create some ratio of
outputs. Where there's an excess of one input, some of that just doesn't get used. We want to burn *all*
of what we put into our cylinder, so we need to get the ratio right, and obviously we need to get its
combustion right.

The carburettor's contribution to good combustion is a well-mixed fuel-air mixture. The aim is for the
fuel to be atomised in the air; that is for it to exist as a cloud of evenly-distributed single atoms of
fuel. A good approximation is acheived by forcing a fast flow of fuel through a narrow nozzle.

The fuel-air mixture is affected by two things - the size of the jet and the diameter of the venturi.

Bigger jets allow higher petrol flows, but the larger the jet, the less well the fuel atomises.

Venturi sizes have a fairly large knock-on effect. The air flow through the carb is produced by the
action of the cylinder - on the 'suck' stroke it pulls in a volume of air equivalent to its displacement.
The volume flow rate (that is m<sup>3</sup> per second) is therefore (mostly) dictated by the cyclinder.

If we were use a too small venturi, the constriction would limit the flow rate such that the cylinder
cannot pull in a full displacement's worth of air in the suck part of the stroke, and so it chokes.

Putting that flow of air through a too large venturi means it doesn't flow particularly quickly, and so
the pressure drop is low. This means the force pulling the fuel into the flow decreases and 'leans' the
mixture; it reduces the amount of fuel in the mixture.


Balance
-------

Engines, basically consisting of a bunch of explosions and associated rapidly moving lumps of metal, tend
to vibrate. Because these are caused by the operation of the engine, they're all cyclic, normally with a 
frequency of an integer multiple of the engine's rate of rotation.

The balance is ordered into these multiples.

Primary imbalance ocurrs at the same frequency as the engine's rotation and  is caused mostly by unbalanced
rotating masses, that is objects rotating about a point other than their centre of mass. These include the 
crankshaft's deviation from its rotational axis to meet it (the cranks that give it its name) and potentially 
bits of the gearbox.

Secondary imbalance is caused mostly by linear movement - that of the pistons and connecting rods, for
example

We find, in the main, that the more frequent the vibrations, the lower their magnitude. In general, those
past the second harmonic of the engine (i.e. tertiary imbalance and so on) are generally taken as negligible.

There are two ways to overcome these:

You can build a balanced engine in the first place. Or, at least a first- and second- order balanced
engine. There is no engine that is *completely* balanced, since the Real World wont let us carry on
ignoring minor inonsistencies. The flat eight is the simplest engine with inherent primary and secondary
balance, and no-one uses it.

More commonly, you can add counterweights to create balance. Achieving primary balance is reasonably
simple - since the motion you are combating is that caused by eccentric rotation, you only need apply
counterweights such that all rotation is concentric. This is why crankshafts are often 'overbuilt' with
counter-weights.

These do, however, almost always aggravate the secondary imbalance. Of principal cause is the fact that 
the piston only fires in one direction. This is mitigated to good effect in a flat twin, however the fact 
that the pistons cannot share a crank journal creates a rotational vibration around an axis perpendicular 
to the plane parallel to both the pistons and the crank.
