iPhones, and why I have no intention of buying one
==================================================
Being mildly geeky and having a long-standing preference for smartphones, I get told rather often to go
and buy an iPhone because they're amazing. Here's why I don't want to:

1. They're not *that* great
---------------------------

Basically, they're just another iteration of smartphones. When the first iPhone was launched, it was a
pretty big leap, admittedly. It's biggies as far as extra features were:

* Multitouch screen
* App store (though not at launch)
* Blindingly good UI
* Positional sensors (gps, orientation etc.)
* Easy API (to help populate the app store)
* High spec - fast CPU, bags of memory

And, back then (it was only 2007, mind), the smartphone market was pretty stagnant. Windows Mobile was
the default smartphone OS, Blackberrys were being sold to businesses, and things like the N95 passed as
'iPhone rivals' for people neither masochistic enough to buy a Windows Mobile device nor boring enough to
buy a Blackberry.

So, yes, the launch of the iPhone *was* a sudden jump in the goodness of the market. But it wasn't anywhere
near an impossible one. It was more down to no-one else having really bothered to innovate (due to the
apparent lack of market) than any technical leap on Apple's part. Apple saw a market no-one else did,
and made a product for it.

Sure, Windows Mobile stayed shit until, hopefully, the middle of 2010, but everyone else just started
making good smartphones. Within a year Apple's only real claim to the throne was that they used better
hardware than anyone else (with a matching price tag) and they had that wonderful UI, including
multitouch.

2. They're never really yours
-----------------------------

When I buy something, I want it to be mine to do with as I wish. In Apple's eyes, the fact they made the
device grants them rights to decide what you may or may not do with it. This is understandable - it means
they can guarantee some level of usability and compatibility, which is clearly in some demand. But it's
not what I want and, frankly, I can't be arsed to jump through jailbreaking hoops just so I can use my
device, and then run the risk of each update bricking it. I just want to use my phone, not evade the
manufacturer.

When I want to 'void the warranty' and make changes to it or run daft bits of code I've written on it, I
want to get straight to the fun bit - writing/compiling/adjusting - not read up on how to get round the
restrictions put in place on firmware version 1.2.77.81, and the extra precautions to take if you've got
1.2.77.86. That's just not fun. Sticking cyanogenmod on my G1 took less than an hour, half of which was
waiting for things to download. That's what re-ROMing is supposed to be like.


3. There's no hardware keyboard
--------------------------------
This is entirely personal preference, but it's something I *really* want. I know the on-screen keyboard's
really good, but it's still substantially less good than a reasonable real-life keyboard. And I don't
want to take up half the screen with keys, I want to use half the screen to display half the application
I'm running.

4. That single-task thing
--------------------------
Again, I can see the benefit here, since it eliminates the problem of running so many apps you run out of
resources without having to resort to closing apps without telling the user (since they always know the
last one will die on opening a new one, they've no room to expect it to stay live for the next few hours
of knobbing about). But it's an always-on mobile internet thing, surely it's mildly redundant if you
can't leave your IM, IRC, VoIP, ssh etc. clients running while you take a photo or something.

5. They require iTunes, which requires Windows or OSX
-----------------------------------------------------
I don't see the need for iTunes myself - it's a mobile phone designed with always-on wireless Internet in
mind, so it shouldn't need a PC. But I know that much of Apple's support involves interfering with the
iPhone through iTunes, and I gather they wont support a scenario where you don't install iTunes.

iTunes is only released for OSX and Windows. I don't run either personally, and I don't want to bank on
always having ready access to a machine running either. They're not particularly easy operating systems
to get hold of and install.
