KBox
====

Parameters:

The kbox has two Web UIs:
	http://kbox.st-ives.int/	admin
	http://kbox.st-ives.int/admin	non-admin

Counter-intuitively, `/admin/` takes you to the general operation UI, whereas the root takes you to the
system administrative interface. You almost never need to visit `/`; most things are done in `/admin/`

Web UI admin Logon:
* username	`admin`
* password	standard local admin password
	
Web UI /admin logon:	
* get from St Ives IT

KBox Agent:

* AD User:		Currently me.
* KBox server name:	`kbox.st-ives.int`
* Client share name:	`client_16`

Database:
	host:		`kbox.st-ives.int`
	server:		MySQL 5.1ish
	username:	`R16`
	password:	synced with webUI admin logon		


Inventory
-----------

Most of what I've used the KBox for is to find PCs. The *Inventory/Computers* tab provides a rudimentary
search function, which is aware of the last user logged on. Clicking on a hostname gets you the details
of the PC, the Service tag of a Dell can be found named *BIOS Serial Number* in Invetory Information.

The Software in the *Inventory/Software* tab is sort-of ordered into labels. Categorising is *hard* since
Kace never quite saw the need for a good UI here.

* Adobe CS3:
Components of Adobe CS3.

* Dell
Software masquerading as drivers; software that Dell hardware requires, and we probably need never
install or uninstall.

* Drivers
Genuine drivers. I'm not sure why I felt the need for a distinction, but it's there.

* Free Software:
Free as in beer. Basically stuff for which we wont get the BSA knocking down our doors to count. Should
probably have been named 'gratis software' or similar. Incomplete, since it appeared to be useless.
OpenOffice.org, Acrobat Reader etc.

* Non-standard install:
Supposed to have authorised applications that are not 'standard'. Things like ACT! and DWG viewers. I was
to canvas views of what's to go in here at the next IT meeting, but that never happened.

* Per-seat:
Software for which we pay a license per user. MS Office, Adobe Flash etc.

* Standard Install
Software which every PC should have, or is allowed to have. The original idea was to use this for
automated builds, but the MS installer is crap and the KBox can't quite make up its mind how to denote
version numbers, so this is mildly unworkable at the minute. Good luck!

Agent Installs
--------------

Agent installs are managed through *Settings/KBox Agent*. I have configured a 'Provisioned Configuration'
for each subnet, which runs daily looking for new hosts. It would appear that things that're only 'seen'
over external VPNs are not actually seen, but I've not looked into this. People who are only ever at home
tend to not appear here.

Configuring an install is realtively simple, Single Machine Provisioning being pretty intuitive
fill-in-the-blank. Advanced provisioning is only mildly more complex.

Reporting
---------

There are two ways to do reports. You can either hand-write the SQL, or use the wizard. The wizard
is less flexible but easier, through the SQL interface you've basically got access to everything
MySQL5.1, with the exception of table creation (including temporary). The GUI wizard is pretty
self-explanatory, and I'm not about to teach SQL. Some small points to note:

* Regexp matching is unsurprisingly MySQL builtin, documented at [0].
* Capitalisation is inverted - SQL statements are lowercase, names are uppercase.
* If a report's been edited at all with the SQL editor, you cannot load it into the wizard again.

If you do write your own SQL, check the 'auto-generate Layout' box (it's unchecked by default) to get a
normally pretty good guess as to what you're after. It's modifyable afterwards.

Reports can't take arguments, which is mildly irritating. The 'crap PCs' one therefore will require
updating, rather than just suppying with different arguments.





[0] http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.1/en/regexp.html




