Computer-based myths that I've got bored of explaining
=======================================================

Don't worry, there's only four:


MAC 						<a id='mac'></a>
---

It's a fucking 'Mac'.

It doesn't stand for anything, it's not an acronym. It's a bloody Macintosh.

(Unless 'it' is an ethernet address, obviously).


RAID is backup					<a id='raid'></a>
--------------

RAID is what you use when you need high availability. When you need to be able to have disks fail and be
replaced without users noticing.

Backups are what you use when you don't want to lose data. When you've `rm -rf`'d the wrong directory or
someone's nicked the server. They're in a different box, room, building, continent. As far away as
practicable. They're *not* immediate, because they're a protection against user error. If you
accidentally delete a directory on the working copy, obviously you need for it to still be on the backup.

If you have a RAID, you still need to back it up. If you just need to back things up, you don't need a
RAID. You probably don't want one - it's a bunch more complexity for high-availability you shouldn't be
using (if your backup's online, it's not a backup. It's a copy).


Swap space should be 2xRAM			<a id='swap'></a>
--------------------------

This was true for an old version of Solaris. Actually, that's a bit of a lie - it was in the
documentation for an old version of Solaris (version 4ish), but only as a sort of reccomended guideline.
It's never been true of Linux.

Your swap space is what RAM is paged out to when the OS runs out of it, so you need enough swap space to
store everything you want in ram that wont fit in it. In general:

      [ram you want to use] - [ram you have] = [swap space you should configure]

Though, really, if you give a toss about performance:

      [ram you want to use] - [ram you have] = [ram you need to buy]

With one caveat:

* Linux laptops generally hibernate to swap. Swap therefore needs to be at least as big as all the ram
   plus the swap you might be using when hibernating.


iWhile we're here, there's another argument about efficiency of swap files versus swap partitions. In
general, it would appear that they're about equal.

But they're both still achingly slow. If you're concerned about performance (and you are if you're asking
that question), you should be using ram.

Packet collisions are *bad*			<a id='packet_collisions'></a>
---------------------------

Don't be silly, they're a necessary side-effect of how Etherenet works and what makes it so great. *Too
many* ethernet collisions are bad, yes. But by definition too many of anything is bad.

There are a large number of explanations of Ethernet and TCP/IP on the net, which you can use to work out
what constitutes 'too many'. Sticking ethernet lines near power lines doesn't make that much of a
difference.


