Things I don't like about your website
=======================================

###or "I get too worked up about people doing retarded things with their websites"

For some reason, I'm rather frequently asked my opinion of websites. Mildly less frequently I give it
without prompting. I got bored of rewriting the same emails again and again, so here's a quick summary of
the most common completely retarded things people do. I mostly go on the grounds that the idea of the
website is to get a large number of visitors (since that's a fairly normal scenario). If you've no
interest in visitors, this doesn't really apply, though I'd wonder why you're making the site in the
first place.

Following are Bad Things you Should Not Do:


Replace it with an 'under construction' page
--------------------------------------------

There's no situation where this is sensible. 

No the old site was not so horrendously dire that removing it from public access is a worthy and noble
act of humanity. 

Nobody gains from doing this, but you piss off the whatever visitors you get and several don't come back.
No-one wants the suspense of a new site. Make one in the background, when it's ready launch it. Breaking
your website for a week doesn't count as 'hype'. It counts as 'broken': if you've enough visitors for
your site disappearing for a week to create hype, you've too many visitors for it to disappear for a
week. 


Hide it behind an enter page
----------------------------

An 'enter page' is one that serves no purpose other than to make you click on 'enter' to get into a
website. Dictionary.com defines [in the way](http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/In+The+Way) as:

>  forming a hindrance, impediment, or obstruction 

This is a similarly good description of an enter page.

There are times when enter pages are reasonable. If, for example, you've decided to create both a
flash-based and a plain HTML version of your website, you might greet all visitors with the option of
visiting either. Though it would make more sense to detect what they're capable of - if they can't run
flash, they probably want the HTML version. That still meets all the criteria for being In The Way, but
at least it's through your incompetence rather than stupidity.

In short, an 'enter' page gets in the way of your visitors, and offers absolutely nothing in return.

Degrade Ungracefully
-----------------------

Flash is a bit of a pain. There's no auto-updating on any of the platforms where it's stable, and most
adverts are served in it. It's reasonably likely, then, that most of your visitors will not have the
latest flash, either through being technically minded or through not being technically minded.

Javascript is more of a pain. JavaScript isn't so much a language as a collection of closely-similar
languages.

So, you can't guarantee that flash or javascript work on your visitor's computers. In fact, while we have
the <strike>innov</strike>abomination that is IE you can't even gurarantee your CSS will work.

In any case, you should you should make sure your site works in these conditions. 

If you decide to stop striving for CSS validity, you can just add all the IE-isms to your CSS files and
suddenly you'll degrade into IE gracefully. You could, if you wanted, detect the user agent and write the
stylesheet href accordingly.

It's piss-easy to make JavaScript degrade gracefully - anything that requires JavaScript should be
created by it. If there's no JavaScript interpreter, there's no broken JavaScript dependencies.

Flash takes some more work. You've basically got to start again from scratch, which is a pain. You could,
on the other hand, ask yourself whether flash really is the tool you should be using. If it is, you need
to decide what functionality you want *every* visitor to have, and give them that in vanilla HTML. A
message saying "come back with Flash 7" is not how you do this. As well as just people who don't like
garish adverts, people using screenreaders (the blind, for instance), translators (foreigners) or robots
(search engines) can only parse plain text. If you want blind people, foreigners or Google to pay
attention to your website, you want an HTML version.


