Windows
=======

Here be rants. I've annoyed too many people by venting into IRC or instant messaging, so I just do it
here now. It's less agressive - if you want to know why I'm swearing at my computer, I'll point you here. 

This is mostly about XP. It's the only one use. I like to think some of these are unbroken in later
versions of Windows, but given that most microsofties disagree with me on the idea that these are
problems, I'm not holding my breath.

<a id='exe'></a>


File extensions dictate the executability of the file		
-----------------------------------------------------

This is plain retarded. I'm not sure the removal of the need to explicitly say "yes, I do want to execute
this file" before letting it have its wicked way with your files needs explaining.

If you're not aware, I'm not about to try to explain its direct bad consequences, but the massive
irritation that gets in my way is that it means I can't send executables out to people who run Windows.
Because nobody bothered to implement a reasonable way of telling what can and cannot run, in general
anything that can be executed is barred at a firewall or mailserver. Of course, since all one needs to do
to a file to make Windows try to run it is make the filename end in '.exe', I just need to rename them
before sending them out. And the end user then needs to rename it before trying to run it.

Aside from the fact that this is more hassle than the method MS presumably felt would get in the way of
their 'user friendly' Windows experience - setting something as executable - this also means that every
file needs a file extension in order for Windows to know what to do with it. And, in another desperate
bid to make computers look idiot proof, Windows doesn't show the file extension if it knows what to do 
with it. Which is really handy - if I can get a file onto a Windows desktop and call it "porn.jpg.exe", 
I can pretty much guarantee my executable will be run. Which is handy for people with malicious intent, 
but pretty stupid from a security standpoint.

<a id='impotent'></a>


No tools							
--------

It's damn hard to get anything done on a Windows PC.

Firstly, it ships with approximately nothing of use whatsoever besides an OS. You can play solitaire, or
write documents in WordPad. Sometimes you get MS Works, which is peculiarly incompatile with any MS
Office version.

But there's no tools, either. I know it's not a particularly text-based environment, but MS does seem to
be half-arsedly chasing the xml bandwagon. And if there's any kind of plain text file format that
requires a grep, it's XML. But it's not just grep it's missing:

* A reasonable command line interface. (might be fixed with Powershell)
* file
* find
* grep
* sed/awk
* apt-get (ha!)
* shell scripting (again, possibly non-portably 'fixed' with powershell')
* compatibility with anything else at all

<a id='reboot'></a>


Endless Rebooting
-----------------

Seriously, this is the 21st century. And it was the 21st Century when XP was first released. But even in 
the 20th century I came to expect uptimes greater than four weeks.

<a id='incompatibility'></a>


Hardware compatibility						
----------------------

Windows XP does not have hardware compatibility. MS, quite understandably, view themselves as being in a 
dominant enough position that if someone is to make some hardware and they want it to work in Windows,
they can jolly well write the drivers themselves. Not releasing Windows drivers is not an option for
commodity hardware. Hardware is therefore compatible with Windows, rather than Windows being compatible
with Hardware.

This has a number of downsides, the most major one being that the drivers are generally crap. Second to
that by a tiny margin is that they're all over the place. There is no one place to go to update all the
drivers, you need to go to the people that made your motherboard, and then your USB controller, and your
VGA adaptor, and you network controller and your disk controllers. Each individually, and hunt around
through all these discrete systems for the 'right' newer driver, which is probably shit anyway.

Most amusingly, you have to do that immediately after installing. Hardware support can't be built into
the installer CD, oh no. You've got to install, and hope that either an ethernet or a usb controller
works and get drivers that way. Generally, in my experience, USB controllers work but ethernet ones
don't. This kind of leads on to what I've, with some hubris, termed the Windows Paradox:

> When looking for a driver for a piece of hardware, in order for Windows to tell you what it is, the
> driver needs to be installed already.

Which is, in short, fucking retarded. I use Linux LiveCDs to get round it, Dell engineers request copies
of receipts to see what's in the box. I don't know if either of those count as 'elegant', but I suppose
they each work.

<a id='notmyfault'></a>


Windows 7 was my idea
---------------------

Seriously? Listening to customers is now a plus point? Some kind of nice-to-have extra? Some innovation
in Windows 7?

Explains why most of the rest of Windows are so horribly user unfriendly, I suppose. But to advertise the
fact you've not listened for the first 25 or so years of producing software?

<a id='documentation'></a>


Documentation
--------------

Where the hell is it?

Open up your event log (start->run then `eventvwr` and hit enter), find a non-self-explanatory error and
see how long it takes to find an explanation of a fix.

Now try finding one from Microsoft.

<a id='singleuser'></a>


It's a single-user system
-------------------------

Someone on my network is using a computer. I want to connect to it, upgrade Firefox and log out. I want
to do this without getting in their way. This is entirely technically feasible (even Windows can do it,
given the right license), but for whatever reason MS thought they'd lose money if they let people
actually use their PCs, so you can only have one person logged in at a time.

How on earth this made it to the standard corporate desktop OS I've no idea, but I think MS genuinely
have to be saluted for their achievement. Supporting XP is a nightmare.

<a id='tmtowtdi'></a>


There's More Than One Way To Do It
----------------------------------

This probably looks mildly odd from a perly person, but it's a pretty good way to sum up the problem. On
practically any Windows system, there are two ways to configure the WiFi. You can either use Windows, or
an application provided by the manufacturer of the WiFi chipset. These two ways are generally mutually
exclusive, but sometimes, if you're really lucky, they'll both be under the impression they're the only
wifi-configuration-thing available and you'll just have to use a cable.

I don't know why the WiFi chip manufacturers keep making their own. Sure, the Windows one isn't great,
but it's hardly as if any of them have made anything better (if they have, I've missed it, and probably
have no intention of finding it). But I find it really hard to believe this situation is actually better
than every Windows PC configuring WiFi in the same way. This doesn't just affect WiFi. I've seen it on
graphics cards, network cards, power management and input devices. Printers probably get it worst. In
fact, problems with Windows printing are probably deserving of an entire rant to themselves.

<a id='dredge-for-updates'></a>


Discrete Updates
-----------------

No, this isn't the fault of MS. But if anyone can fix it, it's Microsoft.

With my usual OS, when I want to update all the software, I open an application, say 'update everything'
and it wanders off and gets the updates for the OS, applications (Firefox, office suite, music players,
pdf viewers, mail readers etc.) and all hardware drivers. And it's all been tested as working together by
the people that ship the operating system.

When I want to update all the software on a Windows box, I go to Windows Update. If I'm lucky there's
only one reboot. If I'm particularly awake I'll use Microsoft Update and get MS Office updates in there,
too. Then I'll use the Java, Flash, Acrobat and Firefox updaters. Then I do the software that doesn't
have built-in updaters - the ISO burner, the DVD player, my music player - by browsing to their websites
and comparing the available version with what's installed. And then I can go through the drivers if I
like and see what of those are now out of date and see what I can find on the manufacturers' websites.
And I pray to someone that this all happens to work together, likely through fluke more than anything
else.

<a id='c'></a>


Drive letters
-------------

Operating systems are supposed to provide a useful abstraction of the hardware to users and applications.
Making the distinction between drives an inconvenience is not a useful abstraction. It's hardly an
abstraction at all.

<a id='blobs'></a>


Everything is in binary, particularly the registry
--------------------------------------------------

Again, I don't know what to say beyond the title to explain why this is a monumentally bad idea.

Most obvious as examples go of why text files are handy is when changing configuration options on
high-availability machines. You cannot afford to take the system down during the day to change the
configuration, especially since you might get it wrong. So you do it at night. With a text file config
(or a better binary one) you craft the new configuration during the day, then apply it at night. If it
doesn't work, you revert and fiddle the next day. The Windows Way would be to allow several hours of
fiddling overnight, and concoct some form of a backup in case it gets to 3am and you're still not
entirely sure why IIS will only serve pages out of c:/documents and settings/administrator/porn.

I suppose anyone who's been able to fix a machine with a LiveCD and ten minutes probably appreciates how
many better ways there are of configuring things than with files that can't be read by humans. I'm going
to lump in here an insistence on configuring everything via a series of checkboxes and radio buttons,
rather than just letting the user say what they want the thing to do.

<a id='cd'></a>

											
Installer distribution is still pre-internet
--------------------------------------------

It's all based off a do-not-copy CD that is trivial to copy. Given the abundance of Windows installer CD
images knocking around on the internet, I'm a bit perplexed as to why MS make it so hard to find the
correct CD.

A year after I buy my PC, when it's time for its first rebuild, I can't find the Windows disk. It would
be reasonable to assume that I could go to some website, and download a signed CD image file, to burn an
image. 

There's patently no checking of the validity of the CD anyway, given the popularity of pirated Windows
CDs - all that matters is that the key's valid and WGA checks out.

Doing this, I'd know I'm getting a genuine Windows CDs, and there's no malware (obvious comments about
the quality of Windows aside) or other crap in it. In short, it's more convenient and secure for me, and
MS lose nothing. Except the odd 500mb download, which is nothing, really (have you seen the size of
Windows Updates?).

<a id='internet'></a>


Software distribution is still pre-internet
--------------------------------------------

Firstly, there's no repositories. Those don't have a bad side.

More irritatingly, when I need a `.dll` file for some reason, and I don't have an installed and
non-broken PC from which to copy it, I cannot go to some trusted site, say microsoft.com, and just
download it. No, I need to google the name of the `dll`, pick the result that looks the least nefarious
download a file that could be anything, really. And then put it in my system folder and let Windows run
it with Administrative rights.

<a id='exemsicab'></a>


The installers are crap
-----------------------

There is no standardisation whatsoever with software installation. There isn't even a standard for guis.
But the complete absence of a reasonable, standardised, universal means of installation is irritating as
soon as there's more than one PC, or you're maintaining someone else's computer, or even just doing the
routine reinstall-to-keep-it-working. You can't script update installation without seven or eight goes
first to make sure the script is correct, and you need to repeatedly test it for each installer.

Yes, I know, `.exe` files are the standard installer file format. Well, those and `.msi` and `.cab`. Obviously,
there are other ways of doing it (I've seen both `.bat` and `.vbs` installers), but that's getting towards
the fault of the software developer.

The biggie is that running `install-software.exe --quiet` for example doesn't work. Actually, it probably
does for four or five completely unrelated applications. 

Sure *something* works to do a silent install accepting all defaults, but that something is different for
every piece of software.
<a id='unsupport'></a>


It's unsupported
----------------

Not in the hardware sense of the word - that's further up. No, when Windows fails, there's nowhere to
turn to to say what happened and find a solution. There are, yes, thousands of forums where you can post
a question and perhaps a few tens of uninvolved people will read it and maybe in a couple of days someone
who's seen the problem before one will come along with a possible solution.

And that's all well and good. Except you *pay for* Windows, and one of the things I'm told you're paying
for is support. But there isn't any.

<a id='installer'></a>


The installer is crap
---------------------

Seriously, it's difficult to find evidence that any thought at all went into its 'design'. It's even
worse when you consider that reinstall-from-scratch is a part of Windows' routine maintenance - it is
both the only OS where it's expected that you will reinstall about every 12 months, and the one with the
worst installer. There's not much outright *wrong* with the thing, but the whole process is clunky,
distinctly non-linear and incredibly counter-intuitive..
